[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Basic Gerson Therapy is
essentially diet and lifestyle
and detox changes.
And what the basic Gerson
Therapy consists of
is essentially 13 glasses
of fresh fruit and vegetable
juices every day, typically
made from citrus for breakfast.
The typical meals, so
you'll have an idea
of what a typical day is like.
You'll have citrus, usually
orange juice for breakfast,
oatmeal.
You can have stuff like fresh
fruit or stewed fruit or honey
and add a couple pieces of good
malted grain, whole wheat or--
not whole wheat.
Mult-grain no salt added toast
and then some fresh fruit.
And then for lunch,
patients will typically
have a nice, large
fresh raw garden salad.
Hippocrates soup, which is kind
of a tomato, potato based soup.
The original recipe was
actually given by the father
of medicine, Hippocrates.
And it's really a
very delicious soup.
It has leeks, and it has
onions, and all sorts
of really good things in it.
And then the typical baseline
is like a baked potato,
a couple of cooked vegetables,
and a fresh fruit for dessert.
And you can rotate
those things around
by doing things
like potato salad,
doing yams, or sweet potatoes,
doing a whole grain rice, just
everything like that
you want to use.
But that's kind of the
basic essence of it
as far as the diet
nutrition goes.
We also start our patients off
with numerous coffee enemas.
And the reason why we use
coffee enemas, well, aren't you
supposed to drink that
with cream and sugar.
You know?
Organic coffee, if you can't
get organic then mountain grown.
And sometimes we use,
and even in an emergency
you could probably use instant.
But for the typical
patients, I like them
to use the organic
coffee and do not
make it with a paper filter.
You want a stainless
steel filter.
Or the easiest way
is just boil it.
Three heaping tablespoons
of coffee grounds
to one quart of good pure
water, not junk water.
You need good quality water.
Distilled or reverse osmosis
or some good quality water
like that.
And our patients typically, when
they start off at the hospital,
and you want to be careful
doing this at home.
I would advise you
if you want to go
on this strong of
a program to be
under the care of an
experienced Gerson practitioner.
So please seek out a good,
experienced practitioner
before you start
on a heavy program.
And that includes things like
five coffee enemas a day,
typically use one
quart of coffee.
Lay on your right
side, put the coffee
in, hold it for a minimum
of 10 minutes, 10 to 20
is a good time frame.
And then get rid of the coffee.
And what do coffee enemas do?
Well, I was talking
about Dr. Peter Lectner
who was one of my trainees.
And since he runs the largest
government run hospital
and also Peter is the Director
of the Surgical Division there.
He had government money to do
animal model studies, which
is really cool.
And what he found
out in those animal
model studies is that one of the
ingredients in coffee cafestol
is very bioactive.
And what cafestol
does is it activates
the glutathion S-transferase
system, which is essentially
the basis for cellular immunity
throughout your entire body.
And a lot of people
think, well, I'm
going to absorb
a lot of caffeine
by having that much coffee.
No, it doesn't
appear that you do.
In fact, it appears that
the caffeine may not
be absorbed at all.
But cafestol definitely is.
And so one of the things
that coffee enemas do
is activate the
body's immune system.
Another thing that
coffee enemas do
is dilates the bile ducts
and increases bio production
and increases bio flow.
This has also been shown in
animal model studies with dogs.
Another thing that
coffee enemas do
is they help very much
with pain control.
I have patients come in all
the time on morphine, Dilaudid,
Vicodin, breakthrough meds.
Some of them come in on Dilaudid
to morphine every two or three
hours.
Typically, they stay with
me about three weeks.
Before they go home,
they are totally off
all of their opiates.
They are totally off all
of their pain control
meds, totally pain controlled.
And remember, I didn't say--
maybe not pain free
at this moment,
but they will be, but totally
pain controlled on nothing
more than coffee enemas
and aspirin, amazing.
Another thing that it does,
of course, is a bowel cleanse.
And people always
think about enemas
as doing a colon cleanse.
Yeah, it does that, but that's
not one of the main things
that we're looking for.
So we've got immune
system enhancement,
we have pain control,
we have liver flush,
and we have a colon cleanse.
So we have at least four
or five really good things.
And I'm sure that there
are a lot more of them
that coffee enemas do.
So we have all the
nutrition that we're doing,
a good, heavy detox program
with five coffee enemas a day,
and then there are
some supplements
that we give the patients.
Most of them are
not medications.
Most of them are just
supplements to help the body's
metabolism function better.
Most of the patients
that come in
have low metabolic function,
low metabolic rate,
their bodies just aren't
working as well as they should.
And if their bodies
we're working well
and their immune systems
were working well,
they wouldn't be sick
in the first place.
So we help support
the body's metabolism,
help support the body
to function better.
And one of the precepts
of Gerson therapy
is the potassium-sodium balance.
Freeman Cope, the gentleman who
I talked to you about earlier--
and there was research
that the Navy did,
some studies on Gerson therapy,
which really convinced him
about what Gerson was doing.
And Gerson's theory was that
sick cells, particularly
cancer cells, have a higher than
normal amount of sodium in them
and a lower than normal
amount of potassium in them.
And Gerson therapy-- the
basic Gerson therapy--
focuses on doing an exchange of
that sodium-potassium balance.
The body has the ability
to retain sodium within it,
does not have the ability
to retain potassium.
If you have taken
too much potassium,
it goes out in the
excrement and the urine.
And so the basic Gerson therapy
concentrates on high potassium
foods, high potassium
input, and works
on trying to get
potassium into the cells
to help create healthy cells
where there was disease ones.
Some of the other
things that I use
that are not part of
the basic Gerson therapy
are things like ultraviolet
blood irradiation,
another thing that Dr. Josef
Issels brought to the program.
And that's where blood
is withdrawn, exposed
to UV light, which kills not
only cancer cells but fungus,
and bacteria, and viruses, and
also produces ozone or hydrogen
peroxide right in the blood.
Anytime you expose fluid,
water-based fluid--
which blood is--
to UV light, it produces
hydrogen peroxide or ozone
in that fluid.
And so it has really
good properties as well.
In surgery, for example, when we
have the abdomen totally open,
many times you'll
see surgeons putting
that hydrogen peroxide directly
into the open abdominal cavity
to help clean the area.
And we, typically, use hydrogen
peroxide externally on wounds
and so on.
So to be able to produce
that kind of thing right
in your blood and kill off
the disease right where it is,
is really a unique aspect.
Hyperbaric medicine
is also something
that I'm very much a fan of.
I'm also a hyperbaric
physician and did training
in San Diego and Denver.
And here in the United States,
only about 35 different disease
entities are legally treatable
by hyperbaric medicine,
worldwide about 187 of them are.
And cancer is just one of
them that works so well.
But so many other types of--
almost any degenerative disease
will respond positively
to hyperbaric medicine.
And basically, what that does
is raises the partial pressure
of oxygen in the blood
and then tissues.
You can actually have
a crush injury where
discs lead to the crush injury.
And if you have a person
in a hyperbaric chamber,
you'll get increased tissue
levels of PO2, partial pressure
of oxygen. And so
hyperbaric medicine
is another wonderful modality.
One thing that I
will warn you about
is the little blow
up chambers that
only do about a half atmosphere
won't work very well.
You need they go out at
least 1 and 1/2 atmospheres
or so before you
start getting very
much of an increase in oxygen
levels in blood or tissue.
So if you're going to do
hyperbaric medicine, use that.
Let's talk for a
minute about dentistry.
Very few people
realize the impact
that dental problems have
on your overall well-being,
on your overall health.
If you have dental problems
and you don't correct it,
you have a chronic drip, drip,
drip into the blood system,
into the bloodstream--
infections, bacteria,
problems of all types.
You must correct
dental problems.
Now there are ways
to correct them
and there are ways
to correct them.
What's the right way to do it?
You definitely do not want
silver amalgam fillings.
The silver is probably OK,
the amalgam is the problem,
and that's the mercury.
And I can't understand
how dentists worldwide
continue to put tons of mercury
into the heads of people
around the world when
we're told that even
the smallest amount of mercury
that you might absorb--
if a thermometer breaks
in a child's mouth,
you have to take them
down to the hospital
and get them pumped
out immediately
because the mercury
is too dangerous.
If it's that toxic, why are
we putting it into our mouths?
There have been
numerous studies that
show that simply by removing the
silver amalgam fillings cancer
goes away, arthritis goes away.
All the chronic,
long-term, hard to deal
with, degenerative problems
improve with doing nothing
more than getting
rid of the silver
amalgam fillings that are
continually leaching out
mercury into your body.
What do you replace them with?
There's a lot of good
replacements out there now.
Almost any of the
modern replacements
that do not use mercury in
them probably quite usable.
Also, you don't
want root canals.
Do not have a root canal.
Do you not have an implant.
Anytime you have a dead
tooth, the gums typically
will adhere to a live tooth.
When you have a dead
tooth for any reason--
whether it be a root canal,
whether it be an implant,
whatever the reason--
the gums will pull
back just a tiny bit
and bacteria will
get down inside.
You'll end up with abscesses in
the bottom, with spongy bone.
You need to go to a
good holistic dentist,
a good biological
dentist, have a tooth--
if you have a root canal
or a dead tooth-- removed.
Many times, they'll find
abscesses, pus pockets hanging
on the bottom of the roots.
They'll have to get a burr
tool and go down and burr out
the jaw bone because there'll
be a spongy jaw there.
And have then
burred out until you
get down to good, healthy
bone because the bone will
grow right back in.
But Dr. Issels did numerous
studies, just two of them
that I'm going to mention.
One was over 400 consecutive
cancer patients that came in.
And he said the
frequencies radiating off
of the teeth that had root
canals and the frequencies
of the tumors--
almost identical.
Pulled the root canal--
within days the tumors start
going away, incredible stuff.
Not only that, but he took--
and he did this several times--
but one of them is he took a
root canal tooth, ground it up,
put it through an autoclave--
supposed to kill everything,
right?
We autoclave our
surgical instruments
before we go in
to have surgery--
supposed to kill
everything, right?
Autoclaved it-- mixed the
stuff up-- the residue
that was left
after autoclaving--
injected this into a bunch of
lab animals, and guess what?
They ended up with all sorts of
diseases-- cancer, arthritis,
lymphoma-- you name
it, the animals had it.
And you said, how could that be?
How can all of this
come from only one tooth
that only had one root canal?
Possibly there may
be a connection.
Dr. Virginia Livingston
talked about one basic life
form from which all other
cancers, all other diseases
start.
Dr. Issels talked
about the same thing.
What do you need to do
for your dental problems?
Remove the offending
tooth, whether it's dead--
for whatever reason.
Put in a partial
bridge, do something.
If you have silver amalgam
fillings, get them removed.
Don't do it all at once.
It may be too much for
your body to handle.
Go see someone who's proficient
in biological dentistry,
knows what they're doing,
has some experience
because you want to
give your body the best
chance to get well.
But do take good
care of your teeth.
Dr. Gerson also
said numerous times
that an ongoing dental
problem is something that's
incompatible with
healing, something
that's incompatible with
getting rid of cancers.
You have to put the
mouth in good order
in order to have a healthy body.
[MUSIC PLAYING]